Add `osu!monthly January 2023` news post (#8776)
ppy/osu-wiki: news/2023/2023-02-10-osumonthly-7.md

A huge feature of osu!(lazer) that's a complete game changer for people coming over from osu!(stable) is the fact that you do not need to have an osu!supporter tag in order to download maps directly, you can now do it directly from the in-game browser! You might also notice the fact that once a map is downloaded, it is automatically imported in the background (no need to press F5 anymore), and the in-game browser will show you which maps you already have!

![](https://assets.ppy.sh/media/osu-monthly/2023-01/feature-showcase-jan23.mp4)

## Community recap

### osu!stream available on Android

Back in the ancient days of 2011, [osu!stream](/wiki/osu!stream) was released onto the [App Store](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/osu-stream/id436952197) on iOS, and it has been maintained up until 2020. For many years people have been asking for an Android release, but ever since the start peppy knew this would not be an enjoyable experience due to audio latency issues that were deemed inevitable at the time.

> Well... 12 years later and [ThePooN](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/718454) along with various open-source contributors finally made it happen! You can now [download osu!stream](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=sh.ppy.osustream&pli=1) on your Android phone and enjoy custom maps along with mechanics only found on osu!stream (one example being the hold hit circle).

Reviewer: I'm not sure "custom maps" makes sense here. It sounds like you are able to load beatmaps or something.

I'd word it something like "enjoy unique beatmaps with mechanics only found.."

Author: Thanks, amended in https://github.com/ppy/osu-wiki/pull/8776/commits/214bac3dc4449a3bec9adfd4a7cfc126713e29ef

> Well... 12 years later and [ThePooN](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/718454) along with various open-source contributors finally made it happen! You can now [download osu!stream](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=sh.ppy.osustream&pli=1) on your Android phone and enjoy custom maps along with mechanics only found on osu!stream (one example being the hold hit circle).

Author: ```suggestion
Well... 12 years later and [ThePooN](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/718454) along with various open-source contributors finally made it happen! You can now [download osu!stream](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=sh.ppy.osustream&pli=1) on your Android phone and enjoy unique beatmaps with mechanics only found on osu!stream (one example being the hold circle).
```

> A few years back all the song DLC's have been made free for everyone, so everyone will get a chance to fully experience osu!stream without needing to shell out money for the later additions to the song pool. Have fun!

Reviewer: "everyone, so everyone" reads badly.

Profile badges will be awarded to the winners of each game mode, and finalists will get 6 months of osu!supporter. Anyone who got their beatmap ranked in 2022 will also have their vote count towards the Mappers' Favourite category, the winners of which will receive a separate badge.

Any map ranked during 2022 will automatically show up in the poll if you've played it at least once. See the [announcement news post](https://osu.ppy.sh/home/news/2023-01-24-community-choice-2022-open) and vote for your favourite maps!

### Ranked statistics across osu!

The [Ranked section](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets?s=ranked) is undeniably osu!'s poster child. New players, casual users, and diehard gamers all end up coming into contact with the content featured in there, and ever since it was first introduced, it has been evolving across the years. But how has this affected the amount of content being pumped out if we were to put it into numbers across all modes? In this article we'll compare 2021's content output with last year's numbers and its potential why's!

> Starting with osu!, during 2022 **18,620** difficulties were ranked across **3,406** sets for a total of **37,954** minutes of content. This is a **3.9%** increase from 2021. While it might not seem a lot, we have to realize that the Ranked Queue during this period of time was almost always full! And the small bump in the queue's size helped just a bit.

Author: I'll have to ask Randome this since he wrote this part

> Starting with osu!, during 2022 **18,620** difficulties were ranked across **3,406** sets for a total of **37,954** minutes of content. This is a **3.9%** increase from 2021. While it might not seem a lot, we have to realize that the Ranked Queue during this period of time was almost always full! And the small bump in the queue's size helped just a bit.

Reviewer 2: That bit of data came from https://github.com/ppy/osu-web/issues/8547#issuecomment-1022821624. Were this changes not pushed back then?

- [5WC 2023](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/1699533?n=1) - A skin made specially for the upcoming 5 Digit World Cup 2023 Tournament. Created in the author's consistent and gorgeous design style, as well as following this year's branding for 5WC, it truly shows how much love and care the organizers put into their tourneys

<iframe width="100%" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/videoseries?list=PLA2Nwtxa4WMorBTgwYc7puyftc30_h1Ta" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## Did you know?

The art and name for osu!stream came from a community member! In mid 2010, [Koko Ban](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/60603) on the forums would [show off their idea](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/13087?n=645) for another osu! game by posting a fan concept. The community received it really well, and when peppy decided to work on the iOS version of the game, Koko Ban was commissioned to do the full visual game design. Thanks once again to [Kurboh](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/15243233) for providing this cool titbit of osu! lore.

> Source: ![](/wiki/shared/news/2023-02-10-osumonthly-7/did-you-know.jpg)

Author: applied this, gonna remove the jpg from the branch next push

## Monthly community quiz

> We admit that the last month's question was brutal, and we'll be looking into balancing the difficulty over the next few issues.
> The correct answer was '05Z2 Lazer Radiation', referring to the presence of a 'Perfect Curve' slider type in the osu!lazer editor, along with this banner that was at the bottom of some (very) early osu!(lazer) builds.

Reviewer 3: hmm, well "Class 05Z2 Lazer Radiation" is not a "class" or "classification" (it's "lazer" radiation), while the "05Z2" classification would be

in fact just "05Z2" makes way more sense and would be in line with what the question asks about @chromb 

```suggestion
We admit that the last month's question (*What class must mappers experience to create perfect sliders?*) was brutal, and we'll be looking into balancing the difficulty over the next few issues.

The correct answer was "05Z2", referring to the presence of a "perfect curve" slider type in the osu!(lazer) editor, along with this banner that was at the bottom of some (very) early builds.
```

Reviewer 4: Yeah that works better 👍

Author: dunno why this didn't auto close but I applied the suggestion

![](/wiki/shared/news/2023-02-10-osumonthly-7/jan23-quiz.jpg)

Anyway, on to this month's question, it's February, Valentine's Day is coming soon, so here's a nice lovely question for you all:

"*soonTM*"

Good luck to everyone, and as always there's a month of osu!supporter up for grabs to the first person to get a correct answer!

## Things to look out for in February

- The [Twin Trials mapping & storyboarding competition](https://osu.ppy.sh/home/news/2023-02-01-twin-trials-contest-beatmapping-phase) has been announced, it is split into two parts to accommodate for both map creation and storyboarding, if you have not by any chance seen this on the front page, check it out now! The winners of the beatmapping and storyboarding competitions will get a chance to combine their creations and have them included with every new osu!(lazer) install!

> - The [Roundtable II qualifier tournament](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/1699086?n=1) has commenced, with the best osu! players in the world battling out to be one of the two people that will get a guaranteed spot on the upcoming LAN Roundtable II tournament that will be done on in Los Angeles, CA. What makes this prize even more tempting is the fact that all travelling and living costs will be covered for the two winners!

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- The [Roundtable II qualifier tournament](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/1699086?n=1) has commenced, with the best osu! players in the world battling out to be one of the two people that will get a guaranteed spot in the upcoming Roundtable II LAN tournament that will be held in Los Angeles, CA. What makes this prize even more tempting is the fact that all travelling and living costs will be covered for the two winners!
```

Author: applied suggestion
